we have a passion for this big important
lake the more you hear on the news Lake
Superior is just an incredible resource
in so many ways I don't know about you
but I know a lot of us here myself
included we have a passion for the north
I've traveled a lot the last couple
years and I'm happy to be home i don't
care how hold it cold it is we have a
passion for the north here we have a
passion for the city in our region we
have challenges right now but you know
what i think we're all here because we
share on the idea that with every
challenge comes an opportunity and we
feel that strongly we also have a
passion for our people the idea that
started all of this was to find a way to
create a place that somehow could
translate this passion and belief into a
physical form so beyond the bricks and
mortar we want to convey a spirit of
place we want it to be big and beautiful
we want to adhere to sustainability
principles that our people our
grassroots volunteers and committees
have requested we want to inspire
interaction in learning we want to
create a central entity something that
knits these multi communities together
on a beautiful piece of land we want to
also promote the talents the strengths
and the identity of our northern people
here so as many of our friends realize
Lake Superior place is unique there's no
top-down development here the benefits
from this place will go back into the
community enter north in addition to
going back into the natural world around
it it's got to be value added in so many
ways
waterfront development in the city and
region was recognized in survey that
North aspira tourism undertook in the
summer of 2006 in grammar a Minnesota
the survey that we undertook in granbury
that summer was a was a cooperative
project a partnership between NASA
Lakehead University and the grammar a
tourism the objective of that survey
really was what would it take to
convince people in grand marais to drive
a little further up highway 61 and into
our region we believe that the pool 6
location is a great spot to locate odds
near Port Arthur obviously Tom it's near
the University and the hospital and it's
next to any new developments that will
take place in the marina the site will
provide an excellent location to develop
market and match visitor packages that
connect visitor experiences to our
regional destinations we feel that Lake
Superior place could become a gathering
place for tourism organizations and
could help facilitate the city and the
noster region's tourism research our
tourism development and our long-term
tourism marketing
friends of lake superior place is now
legally incorporated we are a non-profit
or not-for-profit corporation it's
volunteer it's grassroots its community
driven its bottom up it's not top down
and so this is something that is
appealing to more and more average
citizens in Thunder Bay there are four
goals for Lake Superior place but the
first is that it will be an icon and a
geek way to Thunder Bay in the North
Shore the second is we see it as a
year-round activity hub on the
waterfront so we see this as an
Information Center and an activity
center for the people in the city for
the people throughout our region all of
Northwestern Ontario and the United
States the Midwest and beyond we see
this as a draw for Europe and people
from many many countries and then the
last one is demonstrating accountability
to what we call a triple bottom line and
that is three kinds of sustainability
sustainability is a big buzzword now we
all want to experiment with and research
and develop and do a pilot project on
ecological sustainability we really need
an experiment on the water front a
successful experiment on social
sustainability for Thunder Bay I don't
need to explain to you how we need an
icon of hope and a real success story
and thunder bay at this time and we
think that this will be that will be a
large part of that upward spiral of
optimism which we all know we need and
the third one is economic sustainability
and let's not back away from it there's
a lot of good ideas here there are a lot
of expensive good ideas here and somehow
we have to find a way so that this pays
its expenses as it goes and it's a
positive economic driver for the
community rather than than a negative
cash flow in the future